So remember that when we're
building our Shiny app,
at least when we're using
the default type work flow,
we're going to be using R
to put in our HTML element.
So all of the really standard
HTML tags exist in Shiny.
So you have all of the heading tags,
oops, let me get my pen, pen here.
We have all of our heading tags,
h1 through h6, the little p hyper-refs,
and divs, and spans, and
all the most common ones.
So if you do ?builder, it'll give just
a complete list of all the various
HTML tags you can use.
Later on, we'll actually show you
how you can use your own HTML file,
so that you can use whatever you
want to build your Shiny app.
And you can make your page
as elaborate as you'd like.
For right now, we're just going to
be using the built-in functions.
So in the next code example,
I'm just going to show you the different
headings and things like that.
So we're just going to show
you the different kinds of
HTML tags that we can use or
just a subset of them.
So mostly, I'm going to go over this one,
to formatting tags, so
here in my UI.R function, here,
I've just put a couple of the headings,
I've copied this code from the next
slide on the slide deck, okay?
So here, we have h1, h2, h3,
these all occur in the sidebar layout.
I give some emphasized text right here,
and here,
I give some code text,
which will put it in a mono space format.
You want to do that when you're displaying
code, you always want to display,
just like when you're editing code,
you always want it in a mono space format.
Okay, so you want to run the app now,
and there,
you can see it,
the different heading values and so
on, okay, the main panel,
the code listed in some mono space format.
So you can look at all these
things just by doing ?builder.
Okay, and there we go.
These are all the different
html tags that you have.
Another thing you can do,
let me run the app again, so it's running.
Okay, if you just click
on Open in Browser,
it will open it up in a web browser, okay?
And here is your html tags,
but I just want to do Ctrl+U.
So that you can actually just see the R
code then effectively creates a webpage,
and here, you can actually see
the webpage that it's created.
You can see the JavaScript
libraries that it loads up and so
on to actually run Shiny.
But more importantly, so I probably
wouldn't worry too much about the head,
unless you're familiar with
a little bit of JavaScript.
Most of what this stuff is,
is style sheets in the Twitter
bootstrap stuff, which is the style,
the formatting for all the buttons and
style and everything that Shiny uses.
But also, it has some of the input,
output things that Shiny requires as well.
But most of the stuff we're displaying
is here in this part in the body and
then you can just see how
it uses the function and
how it creates the HTML commands, okay?
So it's just translating your UI.R
into this function right here.
And this is a useful thing to do,
especially when you start to do things
like named buttons and things like that.
You can see how it actually
goes into the HTML.
And in fact, if you're comfortable with
Shiny, but not very comfortable with HTML,
this will be a way to get
used to coding in HTML.
because I think, at some point, if you're
going to want to develop fancy enough
webpages that call R on the back end, even
if you're using Shiny as the mechanism for
doing that, you probably are going to
want to be developing your own webpages
and not using a UI.R.
Okay, so hopefully,
this gets you a little bit of familiarity
with using some of the HTML tags.
Play around with them, and try and
design just a simple webpage with no
interactivity, just a webpage
that shows what you like on it.
Okay, and then next, we're going to start
working towards adding some buttons and
some sliders and some graphs, and
calling R in the back end, and
some of the important things
that Shiny will do for us.